- [Instructor] Okay, now let's pick up
from where we left off.
So, we are going to add a method in application DAO.
It's already added here, register user,
which returns an int and has a parameter of the user object.
So, we're going to take all the information extracted
out of this user object and save it
as a record to the database.
Let's get started on it.
The first step is to get the connection to the database.
So, I'm going to quickly do that
the way we have done for the other methods.
Done.
Now, let's write the insert query.
So, I'm going to say string insert query equal to
insert into users.
That's the table where we want to store all the information.
And, say values.
So, the first one is username.
Then, this password,
First name, last name, age,
and activity.
That's the insert query.
So, if you're wondering, these question marks,
then, they are basically the place holders
for the parameters that we are going to pass to this query.
And, as for the JDBC API, we need to pass
these parameters to a prepared statement object.
So, we're going to get that quickly.
Prepared statement can be gotten
on the connection object.
Just have to call the API and pass the query
that you've already written
because prepared statement demands a precompile query
to the database.
Alright.
And, let's also set the parameters,
so, I'm going to say statement
dot set string.
Now, the parameter indices start from one
for a prepared statement, so parameter index number one
is going to be username and, as I said,
all the information we are going
to pull from that user object.
So, I'm going to say, get username.
So, similarly we need to do the rest
for other five parameters.
So, I'm going to say set string
parameter index number two
and that will give me password.
Up next is the first name,
parameter index number three
and that will be user dot get first name.
Then, there is, of course, set string again
for parameter index number four
which is going to be the last name.
Now, the age is an integer field
so, I'm going to say set int this time,
parameter index number five
and that will be user dot get age.
And the last one, of course, is activity.
So, that's again a string.
So, I'm going to say set string parameter index number six
and user dot get activity.
Right.
Now, let's execute the statement
so, for that, on line number 63,
I'm going to just invoke the API of execute update
which is this.
Now, this API is going to tell me
how many rows got affected due to the operation
in the form of an integer.
So, let me take an integer variable
right there on line number 45.
Let's call it rows affected.
Initially let us set it to zero.
And, on line number 64, I am going to go ahead
and assign the output of that API call
to that int variable.
At the end of this, I just have to take this variable
and return it on line number 69.
Right, so the rows affected is going to go back
to the calling method which will indicate
to the calling method that you were able
to successfully insert a record or not in the database.
So, that's our DAO method.
Okay, so we've got the connection, the insert query ready,
the prepared statement is ready.
We've set the parameters.
We've executed the query
and we've returned the rows affected due to this operation.
Right, let's go to the next step.
Now, we need to construct and send an information message
back to the browser from the register servlet.
So, what we're going to do is,
let's go to the Eclipse,
from the register user servlet,
we've already instantiated the DAO.
Now, on line number 36, I'm going to call
the insert users method.
So, I'm going to say DAO dot register user.
That' our method and I'll pass the user bean
as an argument.
And, the output of this is, of course, rows.
Right.
Now, the next thing is depending on what you got
in this rows returned from this API call
we need to prepare a message.
It could either be a success message or a failure message
just indicating to the user
that an operation was a success or not.
Okay, so, we are going to do that.
We have to check this variable.
Let's say if rows is zero
then, we have a problem here.
So, on line number 40, I'm just going
to quickly take a strong string message variable.
Let's just stay info message,
initially subject to null.
And, if rows is zero, it essentially means
that something went wrong.
So, I'm just going to say sorry,
an
error occurred.
And, if the number of rows has changed,
it essentially means that I was able
to insert a record so I just have
to give a success message saying
that a user was registered successfully.
Great.
Right, so now that this is done,
we are ready with the response that we want
to write back to the client.
So, now that the message is ready,
we just need to write it back to the client
so I'm going adopt the same strategy
that we used in our search use case.
We don't know JSPs as of now,
so we're going to need the entire HTML as a template.
Replace those place holders quickly
and then write that message back.
So, let's go ahead and now,
I'm going to open the search servlet
to just copy that method.
So, carefully, lines number 49 to 68.
Let me copy this.
And, go to my register users servlet
and paste this as a separate method starting
from line number 51.
There we are.
Right, so now the only thing that we need to change
in this is the file path, of course, will be a parameter
but the data this time is going
to be a simple message, right.
So, it is a
string variable.
That's all.
And, what we need to do is we don't need all of this
to be passed at all now, we just need to pass the data
that needs to get formatted
in the respective place holder on that page.
Just to recap,
let's look at the register HTML,
there's a place holder that I've added here
for the message to get displayed.
That's what we're going to do.
Right.
So, we've done that and the last thing is we have
to call this method from the do get.
So, let's come here.
Let's say string page equal to
get HTML string
and the
way of passing the parameter is going to be the same
as we did in the previous demo,
get real path
and the path will be slash HTML slash
register dot HTML
which is the relative path of that file
and the message is going to be that info message
that we want to put as the data.
Once we have this ready, we just need
to get the response object
and write this entire page back to the client.
Right.
The last step will be
we have to assign the proper attributes
to the form element on the HTML.
We know that for this register user servlet
we have the URL pattern of register user
so, I'm going to pick this up,
go to my register HTML
and now, assign those couple of attributes
to the form element.
The first one among them is action
which is exactly the register user.
And, the method this time, however, will be post
because we are making a post request.
So, that's the difference.
The method is going to determine what
kind of request you are going to make.
Right.
In the next video we are going to run this application
and look at the changes.